---
layout: post
title: "Thermal analysis of teapot"
subtitle: "Steady State Thermal Analysis"
tags: [simulation]
img: teapot.png
categories: simulation
math: 1
update: 1
date: 2021-02-01
---
<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert" markdown="1">
This example is reproduced from [**ANSYS**](https://www.ansys.com/).
</div>

## Overview
In this example we intend to perform thermal analysis of a tea pot and indicate the temperature distribution in a steady state and transient analysis for steel material and for porcelain material.

## Goal
To perform steady state and transient thermal analysis for steel and porcelain tea pot.

## Modeling Steps
**1.** Open Ansys workbench, create a "Steady State Thermal System" system

**2.** Define material property for the parts. Steel and Porcelain are used here just for demonstration purpose, but proper material property should be used.

**3.** Import model and suppress half-symmetric portion of the model. After suppressing the half portion, the model will look like as indicated in Figure 1.

{% include img/full-50.html src="/img/post/simulation/teapot/teapot-1.png" des="Figure 1. Cross-Section view of Tea-Pot Main Body and Lid" %}

**4.** Assign material to geometry. First analysis will be performed for porcelain material.

**5.** Thermal contacts generated by default between the main body and lid is used in the analysis.

**6.** Apply relevant thermal boundary conditions on the model as indicated in Figure 2. The tea is assumed to be at 100 0C in the teapot.

{% include img/full-normal.html src="/img/post/simulation/teapot/teapot-2.png" des="Figure 2. Convection, Temperature and Radiation Boundary Conditions" %}

**7.** Mesh the model with a linear mesh and solve the analysis. The temperature distribution looks like as indicated in Figure 3.

{% include img/full-normal.html src="/img/post/simulation/teapot/teapot-3.png" des="Figure 3. Temperature Distribution" %}

**8.** One can plot the vector graph of heat flux for the teapot as indicated in Figure 4.

{% include img/full-50.html src="/img/post/simulation/teapot/teapot-4.png" des="Figure 4. Heat Flux showing conduction, convection and radiation heat transfer" %}

**9.** Now change the material to steel and repeat the steps 4 to 8 for this material.

**10.** Perform a transient analysis. The steps indicated above remains the same only with change that the analysis is solved for 100s and the temperature drops during this time from 1000 C to ambient temperature of 220 C.

**11.** Mesh the model, define substep and solve the model. The temperature distribution for Porcelain material looks like as indicated in Figure 5.

{% include img/full-50.html src="/img/post/simulation/teapot/teapot-5.png" des="Figure 5. Temperature Distribution" %}

**12.** Similarly, perform the transient analysis for the steel material.

## Summary
Summarize the results succinctly and tie them closely with the modeling goals outlined above.